Add naming schema change article (#9817)
lampepfl/dotty: docs/blog/_posts/2020-09-21-naming-schema-change.md

---
layout: blog-page
title: Dotty becomes Scala 3
author: Anatolii Kmetiuk
authorImg: /images/anatolii.png
date: 2020-09-21
---

This article is a heads-up for the upcoming change in the naming of Dotty artefacts (as published to Maven). Currently, the organization name is “ch.epfl.lamp” which will become “org.scala-lang”. The artefact names will be changed from “dotty-xxx” to “scala3-xxx”.

> The change, naturally, will break the existing build tools that work with Dotty. Hence, tooling maintainers need to be prepared to migrate the tooling to the new naming schema. We are planning to introduce the change by October 1st in a form of the next Dotty release, Scala 3.0-M1. The major tooling will be migrated shortly after the release is on Maven.

Reviewer: Here's an alternative formulation:
```suggestion
This change will be part of the next Dotty release planned for October 1st which will be known as Scala 3.0.0-M1. We encourage maintainers of tooling (IDEs, build tools, ...) to prepare for this change now by special-casing the way they handle the compiler when its version number starts with `3.` just like they already had to special-case versions starting with `0.` to support existing Dotty releases.
```

> The change, naturally, will break the existing build tools that work with Dotty. Hence, tooling maintainers need to be prepared to migrate the tooling to the new naming schema. We are planning to introduce the change by October 1st in a form of the next Dotty release, Scala 3.0-M1. The major tooling (such as the Dotty SBT plugin) will be migrated shortly after the release is on Maven.

Reviewer: I think we should be able to publish a working sbt-dotty plugin before a 3.0.0-M1 release, it should only require adding some `if (scalaVersion.value.startsWith("3")) ... else` in the plugin.
